[Music]
hello humans my name is Matt and for the
next several moments you are going to
listen to me
hahahaha sorry I'm just joking this is
my normal voice have you ever taken
direction from a mysterious voice on the
computer before no perfect I want to try
and experiment with you but I can't tell
you what that experiment entails because
if I do it won't work
you will just have to trust me this will
all make sense soon hopefully if you're
sitting down stand up from your chair
and take a step back in a moment I'm
going to have you twirl around so give
yourself a bit of space need to move
some furniture around take your time
I'll wait on the count of three you're
gonna start hopping on one foot are you
ready 1 2 3 hop hop hop hop hop nice
work okay while you're still hopping I
now want you to begin barking like a dog
ruff ruff ruff ruff ruff wow that's
quite a bark and a few more ruff ruff
ruff and three two one stop
feel free to relax and sit back down now
I want you to think about how much time
passed between the moment I said go and
you began hopping on one foot to the
moment I said stop take a guess
I'm looking for an exact number of
seconds or minutes now with a pen and
paper write that number down all done
the exact time was actually 26 seconds
did you overestimate chances are that
you did so what was the culprit the
culprit was time perception although we
can make shockingly precise time
estimates when we experience something
new unusual or dynamic like hopping on
one foot while taking instructions from
a
voice on the computer or say jumping out
of an airplane we often miss calculate
how much time has passed
meaning if you bungee jump for the first
time your fall to the bottom may seem
like it lasted for 10 seconds while the
recorded time may actually show that the
jump only lasted for five the reason for
this difference is unlike your body's
physical drop to the bottom your brains
perception of time does not follow a
straight line between two points some
scientists even believe your brain
follows more of a curved path that is
dependent on the amount of information
you take in as you fall downwards for
example David Eagleman a neuroscientist
at Baylor College of Medicine believes
time perception is heavily influenced by
the number of memories and data you
record on to your brain when you have a
new experience like jumping off a high
dive for the first time your senses are
heightened you're taking in more details
about sights sounds and smells than you
normally would and you store more data
onto your brain in the form of memories
so the more data you store in your brain
like the smell of chlorine as you left
from the high dive or the color of the
water the longer your perception of that
experience meaning the number of
memories and data you record on your
brain has a direct impact on how long
you believe that experience to have
lasted have you ever heard a person
recount what it's like to be in a car
accident
although automotive accidents typically
last seconds those involved often say
they felt the accident lasted far longer
time perception can also account for why
your childhood may seem to have lasted
forever by adulthood a year can slip by
in a heartbeat but children record more
data onto their brains this occurs
because many of the experiences we have
as children are new and unfamiliar to us
the stack of encoded memories on your
brain is so dense that reading them back
makes you believe your experiences must
have taken forever additionally when
you're five years old one year is one
fifth of your life but when you're 25
one year makes up one twenty-fifth
further altering your perception of time
and if you're an adult think about a
trip that you may have taken to a
faraway land
for the first time didn't it those two
weeks you spent exploring your
surroundings seem to have lasted far
longer than 14 days though time
perception is rooted in both hard
science and theory it provides a great
lesson for us on how to live our lives
I'm sure you have all heard that a
person shouldn't sit on a couch and let
life pass them by
well time perception tells us why that
is if you get up and engage with the
world and have new experiences and maybe
even hop around on one foot and bark
like a dog
you will literally perceive your own
life to have lasted for a longer period
of time
[Music]